HTML5 is the newest version of Hyper Text Markup Language. The first web browser was
introduced in 1993 and the name was MOSAIC. The development of MOSAIC was at the NCSA
(National Center for Supercomputing Applications). Later it was discontinued to
development on 7th of January 1997. Still the people were using the nonstandard version
of HTML.

The standard version came into existence in 1995, when HTML 2.0 was announced. Later after
two years HTML 3.0 and after two years HTML 4.01 was announced. And still we are using the
milestone of HTML 4.01.

The First Draft of HTML5 Was announced in January 2008. And amazingly HTML5 has a broad
browser support. Though the HTML5 is still under developing phase. And a lot of organizations
are working and planning for the development of HTML5.

We can’t expect the HTML5 may be the future of Web Designing, but we can say that this is the present
of Web designing. Before the development of HTML5, we were in compulsion to work in Photoshop and
Flash application, but with the development of HTML5, these affords has been reduced. Also a feature we
can use is the 3D image with <canvas>, the special designed paragraph with <article> and many more.


HTML stands for HyperText Markup Language. HTML is the main markup language for describing the structure of Web pages.

Description

    Hypertext is text displayed on a computer or other electronic device with references to other text
    that the user can immediately access, usually by a mouse click or key press.

    Apart from text, hypertext may contain tables, images and other presentational
    elements. It is an easy-to-use and flexible format to share information over the Internet.

    Markup Languages use sets of markup tags to characterize text elements within a document,
    which gives instructions to the Web browser on how the document should appear.

HTML Gives You Ability To:

    Publish documents online with text, headings, images, lists, tables, etc.
    Accessing online information or other web resources such as images, videos or other HTML document via hyperlinks.
    Create forms to collect user input like login information, feedback, comments or conducting transactions with remote servers, etc.
    Include videos, sound clips, flash movies, applications and other HTML document directly inside an HTML document.

HTML Tags and Elements
    HTML is written in the form of HTML elements consisting of markup tags. These markup tags are
    the fundamental characteristic of HTML. Every markup tag is composed of a keyword, surrounded
    by angle brackets, like <html>, <head>, <body>, etc.

    HTML tags normally come in pairs like <html> and </html>. The first tag in a pair is the
    opening tags the second tag is the closing tags. An opening tag and a closing tag are identical,
    except a slash (/) after the opening angle bracket of a closing tag, to tell the browser that
    the command has been completed. In between these tags you can add headings, paragraphs of text,
    tables, forms, images, videos etc. For example, a paragraph, which is represented by the p element, would be written as:

        <p>This is a paragraph.</p>
